[MUSIC]
So one thing we're going to need to do
is wire the servo to the Raspberry Pi so
let's look at the wiring on a servo.
All right.
What we see here, are two plugs for
two different servos.
They're basically the same thing,
it's three wires, okay?
The only thing that changes
is the coloring of the wires.
So, there's one coloring that's white,
and red, and black.
And these other coloring over there,
actually, maybe there's three colors.
There's another coloring there
that's yellow and red and black.
But I've also definitely, actually more
common than yellow, red and black,
is yellow, red and brown.
Okay, so basically you see
these different colorings, but
it's basically three wires, okay?
And you can, there are three holes, and
you can plug a 24-gauge wire into
the holes to connect to the servo.
[COUGH] so there's always power in both
of these color schemes, power is red.
And actually, sometimes the power is
orange, if you have the orange and brown,
if you have like the yellow, orange,
brown, then that orange one
is going to be the power.
Then the ground is going to be black or
it can be brown,
depending on if you have
the differently colored servo.
And then the signal, which has,
the signals the controlling information.
That's going to be white on the white,
red, black or
it's going to be yellow on the yellow,
orange, brown.
Okay, so you've got these three wires.
Basically power and
ground are the power for
the actual server,
that give it power to move, okay?
But the signal is where you apply
the pulse width modulation.
So the pulse width modulation that goes
on the signal wire, that's the control,
it tells the servo,
what angle it should turn too.
So that really has the information
where the power and
grounder just draw power to the device,
it's
the signal wire that has the information
about what angle it should turn to.
You know in terms of,
when I say it has the information,
it has pulse with modulated signal which
tells it what angle it should turn it to.
So the pulse with modulated signal from
your Raspberry Pi is going to be connected
to the signal wire, be it white or yellow.
Now the power supply, you have to be
a little bit careful about the power to
one of these servos or
to motors in general.
The power that you give it has to be
a sufficiently big power supply, okay?
Because motors can suck up a lot of power.
Now this depends on the motor.
A small motor, a really small motor,
maybe you can drive it directly
from your Raspberry Pi.
But a big motor you can't,
because the Raspberry Pi itself
can't supply enough current.
So you have to assume with these motors
that generally the Raspberry Pi can't
supply enough current.
So, let's look at the motor,
the motor's power.
So generally with these motors,
you use some external power supply.
So the power input to servo wouldn't come
generally come from the Raspberry Pi,
it would come from some
other power supply.
And by power supply, let's say, batteries.
So you'd have some battery pack connected
and you want approximately five volts.
Now, if you have double
a batteries which are common,
those things are 1.5 volts each, right?
So if you want to get five volts you can
get 4.5 volts if you take three 1.5 volt
batteries, put them in series,
and that's probably close enough.
That's what I would probably use
three batteries put in series and
connect those up to the power supply.
And remember that the power supply is
going to have a power and a ground output,
so the ground goes to the ground
input of the servo and
the power input of the servo
from your battery pack.
So the reason why you have
this external power supply
is because the Raspberry Pi
can't supply enough current.
I don't remember the current limit on
the Raspberry Pi off the top of my head.
I have it in some previous
lecture I think I mention it.
But it's low and you want more.
Maybe an amp, one amp here,
that's a lot but
you definitely, Raspberry Pis
don't drive much current at all.
So you're probably going to
need an external power supply.
So, it has power and ground wires.
You wire the external power
to the Servo's power wire.
The external power supplies the power
to the power wire of the Servo.
And you wire with ground,
the external power is ground,
you wired that to the Servo too,
to it's ground.
But you also wired the external
ground to the Raspberry Pi's ground.
So you want what's called a common ground.
You want everybody's
ground to be the same.
So the ground that the Raspberry Pi sees,
the ground that the power supply sees, and
the ground that the Servo sees
should all be the same ground.
So that we have a common reference, okay?
So that means you're going to take
the ground of the external battery,
external power supply, wire that to
the ground of the Raspberry Pi and
wire that to the ground of the Servo.
So everybody has the same ground.
So, let's take a look
at the drawing of that.
Here's my simple, simple drawing.
On the left I've got my Raspberry Pi.
On the right I've got my Servo.
And on the bottom I've got that big plus,
minus battery thing,
that's my battery pack with maybe three
double A batteries, something like that.
Now the ground side, the negative side,
the ground side of that external power
supply, it's wired to two things.
The ground of the Raspberry Pi,
and the ground of the servo.
The positive side of
that external battery,
external power supply is connected
to the power of the servo.
And then Raspberry Pi,
pin 12 I'm using in this case.
It's connected through a resistor to
the signal input to the Servo, okay?
And that's where the pulse-width modulated
signal is going to be, on pin 12.
Now, couple of comments, one thing is
that, well, let's go through these.
Only pins 12 and 24, based on the BOARD
numbering, not the Broadcom numbering,
but the BOARD numbering can produce
pulse width modulated signals on
the Raspberry Pi.
Pins 12 and 24.
In fact, only pin 12 on
the Raspberry Pi A and the Raspberry Pi B.
The B plus allows you to use pins 24 for
pulse width modulation as well.
So it's gotta be one of those two pins.
I used 12 in this case,
but it could have been 24.
Another thing is,
that you can use a resistor.
So you see there's a resistor between pin
12 and the signal input of the servo.
You can use a resistor to
isolate the pins from the servo.
What I mean by that is if there's
some kind of problem with the servo,
some bad problem, the servo could
drive current through to pin 12.
In the, so basically information's
going in the wrong direction.
Power's going in the wrong direction.
We don't want that but if there's some
weird malfunction with the server,
say you dunked it under water or something
like that, such a thing could happen.
So to isolate you put some resistant,
maybe a one kilo ohm resistant
there just to reduce the current.
So if it does have some kind of
jump in current it won't be so
much that it'll hurt your Raspberry Pi.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]